# Project MySelf

The goal of Project MySelf is to build a system to collect data about yourself
in a safe and private way, so that you control your data and you can decide what
happens with it.

## The Backstory

You track a lot of data about yourself.

Some of that you do consciously. You might wear a wristband or a watch logging
your daily activity or the miles you do when you do sports. You might use your
phone to track your location, the food you eat, or the money you spend. You
might record health data such as your weight, blood pressure, pulse. You might
keep memories by writing a diary or taking photos.

Other data is tracked by your environment or by others. Your bank tracks how
much money you spend, your house tracks how much energy you consume, your
navigation system tracks, where you are going.

There are many other examples. Technology has made it tremendously easy to
acquire and collect data. With your phone you have a powerful computer in
your pocket, packed with sensors. More and more devices are connected to the
Internet. Scales are sending weight data to the cloud. Phones are recording the
path of your latest run or bike ride. A sensor to record your movements fits
into a nice piece of jewelry. The Internet of Things is promising that there
will be much more of that in the future, and with devices like the Rasperry
Pi you are even able to easily build parts of it yourself. Cloud servives are
queuing up to get your data and while helping you to make use of it build a
business on top of it.

Tracking data about yourself can be very useful. You can use it to improve your
health, gain insight into your life, control your behavior, remember good
moments. You can learn and decide based on data which provide facts. This can
make better decisions, get better understanding, and help you to do the right
things. So there is value in tracking your data, and services which help you to
make use of the data provide some of this value.

There is a problem, though. It's data about yourself. This by definition is
very private data. You want it to be safe, you want to make sure that it's not
abused. It's valuable data, and it would be great, if you profit from it at
least as much as some cloud provider making use of your data. There are privacy
laws, terms of use, ethics, organizations and individuals addressing these
issues. It still needs care, and you better use the technical means which are
available to stay in control of your own data.

But there is an even bigger problem. Combining data multiplies its value. You
can answer the really interesting questions. Does my diet work? How much money
do I spend, when I'm on vacation? What indicators predict my health? How does
my environment influence my happiness? There are many more questions where data
about yourself can give some answer, and the answers are even more sensitive and
private than any of the individual data sets. If you want to make use of this
you want to make sure that you know exactly what happens there. How can you be
sure?

We need to solve this problem. I should be in control of data about myself. I
should be able to decide what data I share, and if I do it at all. I should be
the person who gains the insight in what can be learned from combining all the
data I track about myself. I should own my data and be sure of it.

Project MySelf is the attempt to solve this problem. Its goal is to create a
system which makes it possible to collect data about yourself in a safe and
private way, so that you control your data and you can decide what happens with
it.
